claude are you ready to build ready to
help what do you want to build all right
so let's start simple claude go ahead
and create a simple Hello World starter
coding examples for the six most popular
programming languages let's go ahead and
create them inside of a directory called
starter coding
hello world examples are in the starter
coding folder for Python JavaScript Java
C++ Go and Ruby
fantastic okay Claude go ahead take
those examples and showcase how to make
an HTTP request make a um go ahead and
pass in the URL as a CLI parameter and
comment every line of code
updated six programming examples to make
HTTP requests using URL parameters with
added detailed comments nice okay as you
guys can see here we have real time
speech to text running and it's getting
fed into our agentic coding tool and you
know this is really cool right real time
speech to text coming in i love to see
this in real time inside of the cloud
RealtimeSTT, Claude Code, OpenAI TTS
code is programmable codebase i've got
everything dialed into a single file
within you know 700 lines of code we
have our ears we have our brain and we
have the voice of our personal AI
assistant now we're going to break this
down but let me go ahead and and cancel
this large request this is really cool
we have a personal AI assistant that we
can talk to to make changes for us we're
going to talk about how Cloud Code
completely changes the game for personal
AI assistants in this video let's go
ahead and continue making useful changes
so inside of the script we have an issue
you can see we have the default list of
cloud code tools and if I search for
this um I'm not actually using this yet
this is a real problem that I just kind
of left in here to showcase in this
video and what I want to do here is have
our personal AI assistant fueled by
cloud code go ahead and make this change
for us fire this up again with that same
ID a cool feature is that we can
reference previous conversations i'll
show that off in a second let's just go
ahead and kick this off and now you can
see our personal AI assistant listening
to us right this is an always on
assistant you can see there it's
autocorrecting things as it proceeds and
I'm going to go ahead and pause here and
you'll notice nothing will
happen okay so nothing happened there
because the trigger word wasn't detected
my trigger words here are one of these
four and as soon as I say them the
assistant will actually act right so
let's go ahead and make this change
sonnet go ahead and update our allowed
tools CLI parameters update these to use
our constant at the top of the file we
have a constant called default cloud
code tools go ahead and use this instead
of basically duplicating those items we
should get this picked up here there we
go so sonnet is one of my trigger words
so it's going to go ahead and actually
run this command so you can see cloud
code got kicked off we should use the
spread operator here so that we can
reuse that constant that we had at the
top of the file right so we had our
default cloud code tools we want to see
this get used here on the left as we'll
talk about in a second you know the
system is not perfect you know the first
cloud code is expensive and then the
second problem is that we have uh
updated the process message method to
use the default claw tools constant from
lines 85 to 93 for CLI parameters
avoiding duplicate tool lists fantastic
and so you know the second issue here is
that it does take some time you can see
there audio itself playing took 9
seconds that's fine but running our
agent coding tool did take a decent
amount of time so you can see that
change got rolled in there that looks
fantastic so Anthropic just released the
Anthropic Web Search AI Plan Draft
uh web search tool and I want to play
with this a little bit so I already have
this documentation inside of our AI docs
one of the three essential folders
highly recommend you set up this
directory inside your codebase our
assistant has access to this so let's go
ahead and create a brand new plan
that'll combine this and our UV single
file script so that we can get a
concrete demo of how the web search tool
looks so I'm just going to use my
assistant to build out this plan and
then implement it for us so I'm going to
go ahead and just quickly reset
here sonnet read a couple files in our
AI docs directory i want you to read the
UV single file script and I also want
you to read the uh enthropic web search
tool documentation so put these together
into a single spec inside of our specs
directory this is going to detail how we
can build out a minimal version of the
new anthropic web search as a UV single
file script i just want you to create
the plan for us here write a brand new
plan in the specs directory okay so as
you can see there I think one of the
problems with natural language is that
you know it just takes some time to like
really communicate everything you want
i've created a detailed spec for a
self-contained Python script that takes
search queries from the command line
uses anthropics web search with
authentication formats results with
citations and supports options like
domain filtering and location context
the spec covers script structure
dependencies CLI authentication usage
examples output format error handling
and future improvements okay so this
looks good overall it looks like we are
actually missing our uh code examples so
Sonnet update that file uh we are
missing a concrete code example make
sure you pull you know real code
examples from Enthropic web search tool
markdown file from our AI docs and make
sure that that's added in there we need
concrete examples because we're going to
use this as the kind of framework for
actually writing this code so we have
the update coming in here and so you
know this is just continuing down that
trend of great planning is great
prompting this is the key principle in
lesson five and I've mentioned it on the
channel a million times now i'm going to
keep mentioning it because you know
successful engineering really being
successful at anything um it's not
always about new different ideas it's
really about doing the same correct
thing over and over and over at updated
the anthropic web search UV spec code
examples covering tool setup API
requests citation extraction and
response formatting it includes a full
working example with error handling
specific anthropic error codes and
improved citation formatting the spec is
now ready for implementation with real
world code from Anthropics docs okay so
if we take a look at this documentation
here the updated version looks a lot
better you can see our command line
interface web search capabilities this
looks good we have block domains there's
tools there's max use let me just go
ahead look at the documentation again at
a high level type name max uses okay
great so this looks right we just had
our personal AI tool build out this plan
for us read some documentation and now I
think it's time to go ahead and
implement this so the great part about
this you know this is a really important
part of whatever system you're building
out if you're you know integrating with
LLMs and agentic systems you really want
context reusability this is something
that uh I hope the cloud code team
spends some more time building out they
just recently launched this feature
where you can do claude continue and
this will pick up on your previous
session they also just added claude
resume so if we click cloud resume you
can see different sessions pop up and so
this is a really great way to hop back
in specific sessions but in the system
I've built out a simple conversation
tracker which you can see here in the
output directory if we click CC you can
see all I'm doing is tracking you know
basic conversation history right so
there's that intro cloud code are you
ready to build so on and so forth this
is a great way to reload the
conversation obviously we're using cloud
code here as a programmable tool that
means we need to do a little bit more
managing of context go ahead and fire
this off and let's get this feature
implemented claude go ahead and read the
anthropic web search UV script spec and
let's go ahead and implement this into a
brand new UV single file script
all right so this should be good enough
the big unlock here is that cloud code
is smart enough it's intelligent enough
it has enough searching capabilities
right it's agentic enough to take this
request and it has the abilities to look
through whatever it needs to inside this
codebase right the specs and the AI docs
in particular this should be enough for
cloud code to get started right it knows
to read this spec and of course it can
see that specs directory if it does any
file searching and then we say let's go
ahead and implement this into a new UV
single file script so let's see what
cloud code comes up with here let's yeah
there we go nice that looks great
um let's uh see what we got here i've
created a self-contained Python script
for the anthropic web search UV with
command line support error handling API
key checks citation formatting and
colored output it includes time zone
support usage tracking domain filtering
and robust API error handling there's
also a readme with install steps usage
examples output details and pricing
notes the script runs via doshanthropic
search.py your search query awesome okay
so you know really what I want to do
here is showcase the uh capabilities of
a personal AI assistant so I don't want
to harp too much on this script um but
you know since it's here let's go ahead
and run this so let's open up the readme
that was created and there's our search
query so uh we probably need to run CXO
on this probably give permissions here
cx enthropic search Python file and then
let's go ahead and run a search
anthropic claw code and let's see what
we get here so I'll be impressed if this
uh works in one shot i feel like that
happens more and more you know the more
you kind of learn to write concise
prompts you know natural language
written language the easier it gets to
actually clean this code up so um looks
like there was an issue here
okay interesting so we got one search
and response i'll search these
capabilities for you so that worked this
is here i'm actually going to go ahead
and commit this into this codebase all
of this by the way is available to you
link in the description this is going to
be in the cloud code is programmable
codebase we're continuing to explore how
we can use cloud code as a programmable
agentic coding tool this makes personal
AI assistance not only better but more
performant than ever as you saw right in
the terminal we can just talk we can
communicate and we can have Cloud Code
do arbitrary work for us thanks to all
of its incredible tool calling
capabilities not only did it write a
bunch of cool starter code for us it
also uh was able to write a plan okay so
it merged a couple pieces of
documentation we wrote a plan and then
that plan contained the kind of you know
key framework for our actual code okay
so we're using AI plan drafting and then
we use that to um actually generate a
new piece of code while we're talking
Voice to Code - Merge and Delete
about this I'm going to fire this up and
I don't want this additional readme here
so um I'm just going to have our
assistant clean this up i want to merge
this so uh Sonnet can you go ahead and
take the anthropic search readme and
merge it into our base level readme i
don't want that duplicate readme please
go ahead clean that up and then delete
the anthropic search readme when you
finish this is going to happen
automatically in the background for us
so that's great while you're working
with these assistants you know and doing
scary things like merging and deleting I
always like to uh just commit whatever
code I have um you know I highly
recommend you get this on some type of
short alias i'm just going to run that
there why is this important why is
having a incredible 700 line personal AI
assistant valuable right why is this
valuable it's valuable because of one
simple idea you know it we talk about on
the channel all the time read me is
merged the duplicate deleted and
anthropic search docs are now fully
included with sections on prerequisites
setup usage output format and keynotes
fantastic okay so sorry yeah we got
interrupted there guys sorry uh what was
I saying so the key idea here is compute
equals success okay the more you scale
your compute the more success you will
have as an engineer in the generative AI
age if you understand this one idea you
are going to win you're setting
yourselves up to win so how were we able
to tap into more compute here with our
personal AI assistant plugged into
Claude Code cloud Code is a programmable
agentic coding tool and not only is it
just programmable it's infinitely
programmable so you can do stuff like
this right um you can write entire
workflows right here's a super simple
one we've looked at right you have a
prompt that uh creates a new branch
creates a to-do to-do.ts ts minimal C
cli application and then it commits okay
so there are tools embedded in this
prompt right and and that's the big idea
if you get that you'll get a lot of
things there are tool calls embedded in
this prompt and it unlocks all types of
craziness right reusable ADWs principal
a coding members know how powerful that
can be we can call any tool natural
language we can embed inside scripts and
we can stack multiple cloud code
instances we can scale our compute with
cloud code in agents you're seeing this
you know in the flesh you know I I don't
just talk on this channel i don't just
you know hype up things i always aim to
deliver real engineering value to you we
got to talk about pricing as well in a
second but the personal AI assistant is
a concrete example of that right we have
a cloud code call here you can see in
our process message we're setting up
that cloud code command just as we have
in our previous more simplistic examples
right so in this codebase you know
whenever you're ready for it we have
underscore 2 um cloud code is
programmable and you can see this exact
simple example boiled down to its atoms
okay you can see there's a prompt we're
doing a few things there and then we're
running cloud code as a programmable
agent encoding tool there is some
confusion in the industry right now some
engineers are wondering what is cloud
code for how is it different you know is
cursor better is better a couple
thoughts there first don't think in ors
think in ands use these tools together
use different combinations don't limit
yourself with the ore mindset that will
set you back point number two here is
there is no other tool right now that is
an agentic programmable tool okay we've
gone into detail on this in a couple
previous videos you know we know that AI
coding is a small subset of agentic
coding but the the the true impact of
this we're going to be unpacking on the
channel make sure you're subscribed make
sure you're part of the journey because
this is going to get really interesting
right you you can't do this with
Windsurf you can't do this with Cursor
you can't do this with Klein codeex is
the only tool uh close to accomplishing
this it has full auto mode and then you
can write a prompt and then your
assistant will do work for you okay so
this is close but codeex is is you know
to be fully honest it's nothing special
it's basically a clone of cloud code the
only thing they have going for them is
the fact that they enable open models
okay so you can use whatever model um
you want right they have custom
configuration option for uh different
models right so of course everyone's
running toward the new Gemini models
they just released the new Pro model
that's all fantastic if Claude Code
opens up their models they just win this
game immediately okay now I doubt
they'll do that it's not a good
strategic decision to make from a
business strategy perspective they are
making so much money off this tool and
uh you know maybe that's a good place to
to go here now right this personal AI
assistant cloud code this new powerful
agentic tool um it's not all roses right
this then costs you can see here um you
know what but before we get to this
before we dive into this uh I just
really want to I want to stop and uh I
always forget to do this i want to stop
Thank you - 50k subs soon
and say uh just a huge thank you uh
we're about to hit 50k subs
and we were never supposed to get this
big i imagine we would flatline around
10 or 20k subs and we would just go
sideways for basically ever right like I
imagine that this was it okay but here
we are almost at 50K subs it's been a
really long drive every week I show up
four you know mid and senior plus
engineers working in the field with
their boots on the ground every single
day right it's about building real
valuable software engineers are
skeptical by nature it's like a huge
percentage of the audience that watches
the channel they're not subscribed and
that's fine that's fine whenever you're
ready I'm here i'll be here every single
week i don't know if you can tell yet if
you can't this is not a scam this is not
a griff the one product that I do sell
on the channel Principal AI coding has
been immensely valuable to every
engineer that's taken it the reviews
have been insane and it's setting up for
what we're going to do next you can
already kind of feel what's coming next
if you've been watching the channel
everything we're doing is about scaling
our compute so that we can be successful
right we're talking LLMs AI coding
agentic coding AI agents and whatever
comes next i'm I'm really proud to say
there are some big big hitting engineers
and high performers that watch this
channel we're talking about your
favorite engineers favorite engineer and
um you know I just want to stop and just
say thank you you know it's been a
obviously a ton of hard work doing this
every single week but it is always worth
it to help you know you to help other
engineers there's so much noise and and
the the noise to value ratio I feel like
is very low um just across the ecosystem
one last thing I'll say here is I have
three priorities and no matter how big
we get I want you to know that you know
what these priorities are because it
differentiates what we do here on the
Indie Devdan channel okay so one build
living software two unlock your
engineering potential and three make a
living by creating value okay the order
is everything right um I I want you to
know my priorities and I want to just
really hint on why it's so important to
have priorities yourself i'm not here to
make a living right that's not my first
priority that's my third priority i'm
not here to just unlock your engineering
potential okay my top priority is to
build living software that works while I
sleep okay and by having this mission
right by having that as my key
cornerstone mission I'm able to provide
you with unique value that you can't
find anywhere else because of my mission
because of my priorities this isn't
changing it's not going to change and
I'm going to be here every single week
50K 60K no matter how high or how low we
go we're going to have big videos we're
going to have crappy videos that don't
do well but in every single video I'm
going to be aiming to give you concrete
value to help your engineering every
single week every single day and you
know by the way you know I do focus a
lot of my time and effort on senior plus
engineers but you know for all the noobs
out there following learning big shout
out to you some of the content we look
at is dense hats off to you for learning
for pushing above your weight the best
way to grow as a noob you know junior
engineer is to spend time with other
heavy hitters and you know listen to
other engineers that know what they're
doing and that you know have concrete
takes anyway that's a long rant i just
want to say thank you we're almost at
50K that's cool in the end it's just a
number what matters is what we do here
on the channel the technology we use and
the way we use it patterns techniques
and most importantly principles right
tools great models great applications
great what matters is what we do with
them back to Claw Code and back to the
personal AI assistant back to scaling
our compute so um I just want to talk
Claude Code COSTS
about costs okay uh we're getting deep
fried here this is my cost chart for
Claude Code i just took a quick image of
this today um and you can see here in
just 10 days I'm at $100 okay and I even
have some off days on here right where
I'm using other technology so I can
guarantee you uh I'm not using enough
compute you're not using enough compute
we can get these numbers way higher and
we're going to And you know to be clear
it's not about spending more money it's
about spending more money and getting
more value out if you can spend $100 and
get $200 worth of engineering work done
you should put in as much money as you
can right you have a value generator
right that's what a lot of these
powerful tools are you put 20 bucks in
and 40 bucks worth of value comes out
right now now the trick obviously is
when we're comparing our compute
advantage across all these tools the
real question is can you put a 100 bucks
in and get 300 bucks out using a
different tool okay and then then and
that's what the compute advantage
equation is really all about and that's
what we're going to be exploring on this
channel over time right now there just
is not a tool more important than Cloud
Code they're shipping the highest amount
of value and the ROI you can get here
the exchange of time plus cost is
actually quite low if you really really
understand the value of your time you
know on one hand yes very expensive on
the other hand something is only
expensive uh relative to what it gives
you you can see yesterday almost 50
bucks pretty gnarly so I love Cloud Code
i'm going to continue using it i'm
definitely not saying don't use this you
know they just launched their Max plan
and I've been scratching my head on this
one a little bit as you may have as well
i can't really tell if this is actually
going to save money or not as you can
see I'm like a prime candidate for
something like this i'm already at 100
the big problem with a lot of AI labs
right now that are providing compute is
that there are still limits okay like it
doesn't matter how much you're paying um
you can see there's still limits i don't
know if this will actually be helpful
i'm going to wait to hear a little bit
more before jumping in on this
membership i am not a clawed user i
think that if you're a clawed user this
subscription is a lot more interesting
and enticing because it is unified they
say that somewhere here right this is
one unified subscription so if you use
Claude Desktop or you know web I think
this is a no-brainer like pick this up
pick up their what was it the $100 a
month you know you're going to get some
good usage out of this where it stops
being useful is if you're not hitting
your usage limits right and and that's
where the math just it isn't really
clear to me um I wish that they would
just come out and say "Hey this is going
to be cheaper if you use the entire
membership." This is going to be cheaper
than paying via API key um as as I am
here right this got mentioned on our
previous video so I just wanted to bring
this up this is available here i think
the giveaway here is if you use web and
desktop and you use cloud code this is a
no-brainer so something to mention here
is you know we were one of the first
channels to really start talking about
cloud code but you can see here inside
of Hacker News we might need to go to
the second page now you can see uh you
know cloud code is getting a lot more
attention 246 comments on Hacker News
for this post exactly to me this is a
really great sign uh the industry is
catching up to how important this tool
is um even though there are still you
know some questions everyone always you
know mentions cursor when any AI coding
tool is brought up as a comparison as
you've seen on the channel there is no
comparison to cloud code right now even
when you exclude the fact that this is a
programmable agent coding tool I don't
think other tools are close and you know
I say that by the way look at the bottom
right corner here right cursor tab i use
cursor i pay for cursor um I'm a huge
fan of cursor i just never use their uh
agent capabilities because cloud codes
is frankly better okay and we can dig
into what better means uh on the channel
as we go on but it's great to see this
the industry is catching on the the you
know serious impact of cloud code and
after I finish this video up I'm going
to dive head first into podcast that was
just released with two of the creators
of Cloud Code so I'm really excited to
check this out i'll leave those links in
the description for you as well to check
this out i already know this is going to
be a banger video and they're going to
be some really important ideas i think
you know big takeaway here uh cloud code
isn't going anywhere this is the best
leading agentic coding tool um as you
saw here we were able to build out a
very very powerful voice to cloud code
personal AI assistant in just 700 lines
of code so what are the components of
Breakdown Voice to Claude Code
this personal AI assistants at their
core are simple you have the ears you
have the brain and you have the voice so
the ears of our application is something
called the real time speech to text so
this is a great library you saw we were
using it here and this gets our input
from speech into text so that we can run
it into our brain and so for our brain
we are of course using claw code this is
what actually does all the work this is
what does the heavy lifting this is what
does the responding and this is how we
get work done in natural language using
our voice okay lastly we have our voice
right so our voice is fueled by OpenAI
and you can see here it's a simple
request you pass in your text it gives
you an output file you play the output
file the only kind of important note
here is that we're using compressed
speech sometimes cloud code will return
a bunch of details so we're using gbt
4.1 mini to just compress whatever was
returned we have this clean concise
compression prompt um this is going to
be here again in the codebase for you to
check out but basically we just want to
compress and make things really concise
and put it into a natural language you
know conversational response and this is
a great use for a smaller faster model
you know we can save some time so I'm
throwing GPT4.1 Mini at this problem and
having great success whenever you're
thinking about building out your own
personal AI assistant this is how you
can do it i think this is going to be a
really powerful tool not many engineers
are going to unlock this i want to give
you valuable ideas like this so that you
can tap into it if you so choose and
that's the three components right ears
the brain and the voice this codebase is
going to be available to you link's
going to be in the description this is
inside of the cloud code is programmable
codebase and for anyone interested if
you want to accelerate your engineering
check out principled AI coding this is
the best way to learn AI coding in a
principled way giving you foundational
skills to stay relevant with AI coding
tools of today and tomorrow this is an
essential theme we talk about principles
not tools principles not models as many
of you know the next level course is in
the works i'm working on the course that
comes after this this is going to be a
brand new course that builds on top of
everything we've done here stay tuned
for that we're going to be using
powerful next generation agentic coding
to take everything we've done to the
next level we're going to multiply
everything we've done enough about this
link in the description as usual you can
also get voice to claude link in the
description there's a ton of amazing
real time uh speechto text functionality
to you know modify there are many ways
to make this faster to make it more
accurate or you can trade off speed uh
for performance and vice versa i'll also
leave a link to real-time speech to text
i'll also just go ahead and commit the
anthropic search our assistant built
this out for us i basically talked to my
computer and had it built out you know
230 lines of code which is fantastic
really cool as discussed there are pros
and cons to using natural language and
speaking aloud but I think it's another
way we can scale our compute to scale
our engineering impact you know where to
find me every single Monday stay focused
and keep building